[CF1] warp cert expiring (#19531)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/faq/troubleshooting.mdx

Before deploying a new certificate, [update WARP](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/download-warp/update-warp/#how-to-update-warp) to version 2024.12.554.0 or newer.

Starting with WARP client version 2024.12.554.0 and later, the WARP client will automatically install Cloudflare certificates in an end-user device's certificate store as soon as the Cloudflare certificates appears as **Available** in the Cloudflare dashboard.

For WARP client versions prior to 2024.12.554.0, certificates had to be marked as **In-Use** in the Cloudflare dashboard before the WARP client could push the Cloudflare certificates to an end-user device's certificate store.

In both scenarios (before and after WARP client version 2024.12.554.0), certificate propagation will only occur when the WARP client is responsible for automatically installing the certificate on the client device. To enable the WARP client to propogate certificates:

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Settings** > **WARP Client**.

> 2. Toggle **Install CA to system certificate store** on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Turn on **Install CA to system certificate store**.
```

> If **Install CA to system certificate store** is toggled off, you are either [manually installing the certificate](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/user-side-certificates/manual-deployment/), using a [MDM solution](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/user-side-certificates/manual-deployment/#mobile-device-management-mdm-software) to distribute the Cloudflare certificate to your fleet of devices, or not using the Cloudflare certificate because you do not want to have TLS decryption enabled. [TLS decryption](/cloudflare-one/policies/gateway/http-policies/tls-decryption/) must be enabled to enforce Gateway HTTP and network policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If **Install CA to system certificate store** is toggled off, you must [manually install the certificate](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/user-side-certificates/manual-deployment/), use an [MDM solution](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/user-side-certificates/manual-deployment/#mobile-device-management-mdm-software) to distribute the Cloudflare certificate to your fleet of devices, or not use the Cloudflare certificate because you do not want to have TLS decryption enabled. [TLS decryption](/cloudflare-one/policies/gateway/http-policies/tls-decryption/) must be enabled to enforce Gateway HTTP policies for HTTPS traffic.
```
TLS decryption isn't required for HTTP policies for HTTP traffic (as opposed to HTTPS) or network policies.

macOS Big Sur and newer releases do not allow WARP to automatically trust the certificate. You must either [manually trust the certificate](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/user-side-certificates/automated-deployment/#macos) as the user or [use a MDM to trust the certificate](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/user-side-certificates/manual-deployment/#mobile-device-management-mdm-software).

To update your certificate:

> 1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Settings** > **Resources** > select **Manage** next to **Cloudflare certificates**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Settings** > **Resources**, then select **Manage** next to **Cloudflare certificates**.
```

2. Select **Generate certificate**.

> 3. Select the expiration date for this new certificate (5 years is the default, but this can be adjusted) and select **Generate certificate**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the expiration date for this new certificate (five years is the default, but this can be adjusted) and select **Generate certificate**.
```

> 4. The new certificate will be marked **Inactive** at first. Select the **three dots** to the right of the certificate > select **Activate** to activate the certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The new certificate will be marked **Inactive** at first. Select the **three dots** to the right of the certificate, then select **Activate** to activate the certificate.
```

For WARP versions on or above 2024.12.554.0, selecting **Activate** will download the new certificate to end-user devices.

Certificate propagation to end-user devices can take up to 24 hours, but can be expedited by resetting the encryption keys.

To reset the encryption keys:

1. Open the WARP GUI on your device.
2. Select the gear icon on the top right > **Preferences**.

> 3. Select **Connection** > select **Reset Encryption Keys**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select **Connection**, then select **Reset Encryption Keys**.
```

After confirming that the certificate is installed and trusted on the end-user device, mark the certificate as **In-Use**. To mark the certificate as **In-Use**:

> 1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Settings** > **Resources** > select **Manage** next to **Cloudflare certificates**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Settings** > **Resources**, then select **Manage** next to **Cloudflare certificates**.
```

2. Select a certificate.

> 3. In the detailed menu, under **Basic Information** select **Confirm and turn on certificate**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the detailed menu under **Basic Information**, select **Confirm and turn on certificate**.
```

> 4. Once turned on, the new certificate will now show as **IN-USE** within the dashboard. **IN-USE** indicates that the certificate is being used for TLS Decryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Once turned on, the new certificate will now show as **In-Use** within the dashboard. **In-Use** indicates that the certificate is being used for inspection.
```

It is recommended to have end users disconnect and reconnect WARP to expedite this change being reflected on their local machine. To verify the new certificate is being used correctly:

1. Connect to WARP.

> 2. Visit a site that is included within your WARP tunnel.

Reviewer: This isn't necessary -- you only have to visit an HTTPS site.

3. Verify that no certificate error is enountered.

Additionally, you can check the certificate used within your browser by viewing the certificate (steps vary by browser, but typically involve selecting the lock icon next to the URL) and verifying the OU does NOT reference `ECC Certificate Authority`.

The new certificate will be valid until the configured expiration date.

> ### The new certificate not activating on the end-user device or I am getting a `Certificate is missing` warning even though the certificate is marked **IN-USE**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The new certificate not activating on the end-user device or I am getting a `Certificate is missing` warning even though the certificate is marked **In-Use**.
```

1. Rotate the keys used by WARP to force activate the new certificate by running:

> ```cmd
> $ warp-cli tunnel rotate-keys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
warp-cli tunnel rotate-keys
```

> ```cmd
> $ warp-cli tunnel rotate-keys
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
warp-cli tunnel rotate-keys
```
```

> ```cmd
> $ warp-cli tunnel rotate-keys
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```sh
   warp-cli tunnel rotate-keys
   ```
```

2. [Upgrade](<(/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/download-warp/update-warp/#how-to-update-warp)>) to WARP version 2024.12.554.0.

> Some customers who are on versions earlier than 2024.11.309.0 have experienced inconsistencies with certificate installation and may need to upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Some customers who are on versions earlier than 2024.11.309.0 have experienced inconsistencies with certificate installation and may need to upgrade.
```

3. Turn off TLS Decryption.

If no measure is working quickly and you are encountering browser warnings that are blocking work, [turning off TLS decryption](/cloudflare-one/policies/gateway/http-policies/tls-decryption/#turn-on-tls-decryption) will prevent HTTP policies from being enforced and will ensure websites resolve until the certificate can be deployed to more user devices.

> Turning off TLS Decryption should be a temporary measure. TLS Decryption should be turned if you need to enforce HTTP policies and log traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Turning off TLS decryption should be a temporary measure. TLS decryption should be turned on if you need to enforce HTTP policies and log traffic for HTTPS traffic.
```
